# **ISO 27001**

## **What is ISO 27001?**

- **ISO 27001** is an internationally recognized standard for **information security management**. It helps organizations systematically protect data, control risks, and meet legal requirements.
- It is built around an **Information Security Management System (ISMS) —** a set security policies, procedures, and controls covering people, processes, and technology.
- It’s purpose is to protect confidential data and assure customer, partners, and regulators that all good security practices are in place.

## How does ISO 27001 work?

The focus of **ISO 27001** is to protect the **CIA Triad — Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability** of information in a company. This is done by finding out what potential incidents could happen to the information (eg - risk assessment), and then defining what needs to be done from preventing those incidents from happening (eg - risk mitigation), and systematically treat them through security controls (safeguards)

## What are ISO 27001 Controls?

The **ISO 27001 Controls** (also known as safeguards) are the practices to be implemented to reduce the acceptable risk levels.

Controls can be **technological**, **organizational**, **physical**, or **human-related**.

## How to implement ISO 27001 Controls?

- **Organizational Controls:** These are implemented by defining the rules to be followed as well as expected behaviour from users, equipment, software, and systems. Example: BYOD policy, Acceptable User Policy (AUP), etc.
- **Technological Controls:** These are primarily implemented in information systems using software, hardware, and firmware components added to the system. Example: Backup, antivirus software.
- **Physical Controls:** These are primarily implemented by using equipment devices that have a physical interaction with people and objects. Example: CCTV systems, alarm systems, locks, etc.
- **People Controls:** These are implemented by providing knowledge, education, skills, and experiences to persons to enable them to perform their activities in a secure way. Example: Awareness trainings, etc
